---
layout: docs
title: Introduction
description: Introduction to Javascript object
keywords: 'javascript, object, introduction'
---

# Introduction
> Note that this information comes from You don't know JS! Also, I might move this introduction section to a blog article in future.

Contrary to a popular myth saying that everything in Javascript is made of object, not all value types are actually an object. We have primitive value types:

1. `string`
2. `boolean`
3. `number`
4. `bigint`
5. `undefined`
6. `null`
7. `symbol`

And we have objects and its sub-types:

1. `Plain object`
2. `Boxed Primitives`
3. `Built in objects`
4. `Arrays`
5. `Regular expression`
6. `Functions`

Primitive values are not object. We cannot assign a property on them.

```js
myName = 'Hui Beom'
myName.nickname = 'Zerro'
// TypeError: Cannot create property 'nickname' on string 'Hui Beom'
```

In contrary, all objects have property. Property is made up of key/value, also known as property name and property value.

```js
person = {
    firstName: "Hui Beom"
    lastName: "Kim"
};
```

In most case, property name is coerced to string value type. Number value type (or integer looking string value) is only exception to this:

```js
obj1 = {
  42: '<-- this property name will be treated as an integer',
  41: '<-- ...and so will this one',

  true: '<-- this property name will be treated as a string',
  [myObj]: '<-- ...and so will this one'
}
```

If you have noticed in above code, you can compute the property name when defining object literal:

```js
obj2 = {
  [`2023-${month + 1}`]: false
}
```

## Concise Property

When defining a object literal, we can use shorthand known as concise property to omit the property name. So instead of this:

```js
coolFact = 'the first person convicted of speeding was going 8 mph'

obj3 = {
  coolFact
}
```

We can use this:

```js
coolFact = 'the first person convicted of speeding was going 8 mph'

obj3 = {
  coolFact
}
```

## Object Spread
We use object spread to retrieve the properties of object and use them in another object as they are defined:

```js
obj4 = {
  favoriteNumber: 12,
  ...obj5,
  greeting: 'Hello!'
}
```

Note that object spread is shallow. It simply assign the properties from the source object to target object. So if the property value of source object was a reference to another object, the reference is copied over to target object. Both source and target object will have reference to the same object in memory, instead of creating a new object.

Defining properties of an object happens in order. So in above example, if obj5 contains property name called `favoriteNumber` and `greeting`, `obj5.favoriteNumber` will override the `obj4.favoriteNumber` while `obj4.greeting` will override `obj5.greeting`. In other words, later defined properties will override the earlier properties with same property name.

### Deep Copy
Deep copying an object is complicated because of many edge cases such as copying DOM element, function or cases of circular reference. There is no single standard for dealing with these corner cases and opinions differ from person to person.

There are 3 ways of handling a deep copy:
1. Using library
2. Using `JSON.parse(JSON.stringify(..))`
3. Using `structuredClone()`

`JSON.parse(JSON.stringify(..))` does not work with circular reference and values that can't be serialized to JSON (ex. function). `structuredClone` is more recent addition to Javascript environments (it is not part of Javascript specification). It can handle circular reference and more types of value than `JSON` round trip, but it still has limitation for supporting functions and DOM elements.
