---
layout: docs
title: Introduction
---

# Introduction

I have created this documentation page in order to record and document my daily learnings. This will be different from blog post in that the contents might change more frequently.

::displayButton
Show detailed reason

#content
First inspired by [documentation](https://docs.thcl.dev/) written by [Theodorus Clarence](https://theodorusclarence.com/), I thought having a personal documentation page sounded nice. Keeping documentation section will be similar to how I make notes in my personal notebook, this time I will be organizing my learnings in public! 

[Learning in public](https://medium.com/my-learning-journal/why-you-should-learn-in-public-4fd3a6239549) motivates us to keep learning and discover things that we did not know before. There are a lot of amazing people out there in internet and by looking at their work, we learn things that we did not know before. Contributing to an open source project is one such method of gaining new insights. By actually participating and paying attention to the source code that people wrote, it forces us to think about how the open source author approached certain problems. One thing about being out in public is that, it makes us feel accountable and this actually motivates us to learn new things.

My second reason to creating this documentation page is that, I wanted to write things that are more progressive in nature. As compared to the blog articles, wiki is something that could accumulate over time. Even though I might not know certain knowledge at one time, I could learn about it in future and come back to this documentation to record it down. Since documentation is more partitioned than blog articles, it will allow me to write wide variety of things in an incremental way.

Last but not least, wiki allows for more freedom of contents than coming up with blog post to write about. Thinking back at when I first created a blog in 2020, I realized that writing blogs require a lot of conscious effort. This actually prevented me from posting an article because I always felt that my posts were not perfect and posting half-assed articles felt weird. I'm hoping by creating a documentation section in my blog, I can record my learnings more often and write without feeling too pressured by it.
::

